The President:
This week marked a historic
moment in the life of our
country and our military.
For nearly nine years, our
nation has been at war in Iraq.
More than 1.5 million Americans
have served there with honor,
skill, and bravery.
Tens of thousands
have been wounded.
Military families have
sacrificed greatly --
none more so than the families
of those nearly 4,500 Americans
who made the ultimate sacrifice.
All of them -- our troops,
veterans, and their families --
will always have the thanks
of a grateful nation.
On Thursday, the colors our
Armed Forces fought under in
Iraq were formally cased in
a ceremony in Baghdad before
beginning their
journey back home.
Our troops are now preparing to
make their final march across
the border and out
of the country.
Iraq's future will be in
the hands of its own people.
Our war there will be over.
All of our troops
will be out of Iraq.
And this holiday season,
all of us can finally say:
welcome home.
This is an extraordinary
achievement --
one made possible by the hard
work and sacrifice of the men
and women who had
the courage to serve.
And there's a lesson
to learn from that --
a lesson about our
character as a nation.
See, there's a reason our
military is the most respected
institution in America.
They don't see themselves or
each other as Democrats first or
Republicans first.
They see themselves
as Americans first.
For all of our differences,
all of our disagreements,
they remind us that we are all
a part of something bigger;
that we are one
nation and one people.
And for all our challenges, they
remind us that there is nothing
we can't do when
we stick together.
They're the finest our
nation has to offer.
Many will remain in the military
and go on to the next mission.
Others will take off the
uniform and become veterans.
But their commitment to service
doesn't end when they take off
the uniform -- in fact, I'm
confident the story of their
service to America
is just beginning.
After years of rebuilding
Iraq, it's time to enlist our
veterans and all our people in
the work of rebuilding America.
Folks like my grandfather came
back from World War II to form
the backbone of the largest
middle class in history.
And today's generation
of veterans --
the 9/11 Generation
is armed with the
skills, discipline,
and leadership to attack the
defining challenge of our time:
rebuilding an economy
where hard work pays off,
responsibility is rewarded, and
anyone can make it if they try.
Now it is up to us to serve
these brave men and women as
well as they serve us.
Every day, they meet their
responsibilities to their
families and their country.
Now it's time to meet ours --
especially those of us who you
sent to serve in Washington.
This cannot be a country where
division and discord stand in
the way of our progress.
This is a moment where we must
come together to ensure that
every American has the chance
to work for a decent living,
own their own home, send
their kids to college,
and secure a decent retirement.
This is a moment for us to build
a country that lives up to the
ideals that so many of our
bravest Americans have fought
and even died for.
That's our highest
obligation as citizens.
That is the welcome home
that our troops deserve.
Thanks.